OpenAI and AMD sign a mega deal where
OpenAI could end up owning 10% of AMD.
Sam Alman and Johnny Ive run into some
turbulence in their quest to build an AI
god device. And Meta and Apple and maybe
the rest of the tech world are on a
collision course. That's coming up with
Spy Glass's MG Seagler right after this.
Welcome to Big Technology Podcast where
MG Seagler is here to make his first
Monday of the month appearance. And we
have so much to talk about. We're going
to cover the tie up between OpenAI and
AMD and the fact that Nvidia and
OpenAI's deal is really just a letter of
intent. Uh at this point, we also have
Sam Alman and Johnny IV running into
some bumps as they begin to build their
AI device. And Meta and Apple and maybe
Amazon and Google all are basically on a
collision course to build the same
thing. and we will take a look at how
the progress is going on all fronts and
who's winning. So, great to see you
again, MG. Welcome back to the show.
>> Great to be back, Alex. And I know we
say it every single time I'm on, but
there's so much happening and it's
always there's always more happening.
It's just it's wild how it this is uh
sort of just playing out.
>> I love how we catch up every month and I
was looking at the headlines from just
this morning and I said we could do a
full show on that. Last month we were
talking about the roll out of GPT5 and
whether OpenAI has broken chat GPT with
it. Uh that is a disaster a decade ago.
Yeah. Right.
>> Yeah.
>> So let's begin of course with uh with
Sam Alman and a few weeks ago you called
out an interesting line in a post of his
about abundant intelligence and it was
seemingly a wink towards interesting
things uh to come. First of all, Sam
says in this post, a very short short
post. He says, "Our vision is simple. We
want to create a factory that can
produce a gigaw gigawatt of new AI
infrastructure every week, which is
crazy." He says, "The execution of this
will be extremely difficult. It will
take us years to get to this milestone
and it will require innovation at every
level of the stack from chips to power
to building to robotics. But we have
been hard at work at this and believe
it's possible. Over the next couple of
months, we'll be talking about some of
our plans and the partners we are
working with to make this a reality. Um,
we have some interesting new ideas. And
he sort of left it at that. And it seems
like now with this deal with AMD, which
we're going to get into the details of,
which by the way, uh, might have open
AAI ending up as a 10% owner of AMD, uh,
this is part of the interesting new
ideas that Sam teased. So, uh, let's
just start with the high the high level
here. Um, are we starting to see Sam's
plan come to fruition?
>> It seems like this is part of it, right?
Um, it's it's it's this is it's so hard
to analyze this in part because of what
we kicked off with, right? Things are
moving so fast and it's almost hard it's
obviously impossible for us on the
outside to know how much of these deals
are coming together sort of on the fly.
like there was the reporting about
obviously the the Nvidia hundred billion
dollar deal which led presumably to
Sam's, you know, post there that you're
talking about that that sort of came
together while they were both on the
overseas excursion with uh with Trump
and and sort of going around and and
they were able to hash out that deal
sort of one-on-one. And so with a deal
like this now with with AMD, you almost
wonder like did a similar thing play
out? Was was Sam with Lisa Sue traveling
around somewhere?
Did she pick up the phone when she saw
that Nvidia deal and decide like we need
to, you know, figure out a deal
basically over the next few days to sort
of be able to to respond to that in some
ways? And so it's when when talking
about Sam's post, it's sort of like I'm
I'm unclear if he even knows all of the
uh the ways that this is going to go
from his sort of nebulous uh yeah talk
about uh these interesting new ideas for
financing. Um, and also that post I I
felt the need to write about that both
because I like the the Sam Alman post
Kremlin of it all. Uh, and doing
breaking those down, especially when
they're as short as this one is. Uh, you
know, it sort of I kicked off talking
about it felt like this was basically
written because Sam felt like, well, we
just did a hundred billion dollar deal
with Nvidia. Someone should say
something about it. And then uh and then
you know he goes on for just a little
bit with these uh these very again
nebulous and grandiose terms as he often
does. Um but that this was also tied to
um you know some other um quotes that
that were coming out of this uh from
other companies. Um I think one was uh
was it the oh it's the new co one of the
new coco of Oracle um also had you know
alluded to these these strange new
financing mechanisms and of course
Oracle's a big partner with OpenAI too
is everyone's big partner with everyone
uh these days but um but so it's like
what what's going on behind the scenes
that all these folks are getting
together and coming up with with new uh
accounting methods uh out of the blue
that they that they're hinting at but
not fully coming into. So yes, it's
conceivable that this AMD deal is one of
them or it's conceivable that this AMD
deal came together at the last minute
because of the other deals going on. I I
have to give Sam credit. He's someone
who can write like we're going to be
telling you about some interesting new
ideas we have about financing and
building and most CEOs I would say you
read you would read that and be like
there's nothing there. But with Sam,
we've seen that there is something
there. And that's either and maybe it's
both of these options. I was going to
say it's either a testament to his
ability to turn uh momentum and ideas
into business reality or a testament
into um the entire business world's
blindly following this one man uh and
putting so many billions of dollars
behind uh what he's promising in the
future that it's it's somewhat
concerning. But I think we should just
talk a little bit about the nature of
this deal because it's such an
interesting deal between OpenAI uh and
AMD. So this is from the Wall Street
Journal. OpenAI and chipmaker Advanced
Micro Devices announced a multi-billion
dollar partnership to collaborate on AI
data centers that will run on AMD
processors. Under the terms of the deal,
OpenAI committed to purchasing 6 gawatt
worth of AMD chips uh starting next
year. the chat. GPT maker will buy the
chips either directly through it uh or
through its cloud partners. Uh AMD chief
Lisa Sue said in an interview Sunday
that the deal will result in tens of
billions of dollars in new revenue for
the chip company over the next half
decade. Part of this, OpenAI will
receive warrants for up to 160 million
AMD shares worth roughly 10% of the chip
company at 1 cent per share awarded in
phases. if OpenAI hits certain
milestones for deployment. I have to
admit MG this latest one it's got my
head spinning. So let's just think I can
can we recap it is it it is not an
investment in OpenAI. It is OpenAI's
commitment to buy AMD chips but as it
buys these chips it gets ownership in
AMD. Is this what make sense of this? Is
this AMD giving away the company for
OpenAI to buy its chips and is that
really a purchase or is it just like an
>> So, it's not even Yeah. And you go
ahead.
>> This is struggling here.
>> And again, this this is sort of late
breaking news, so I haven't had too much
time to sort of go over the details of
it, but at a high level from what you
know, the report is here. Um, it does
seem like there's a there's a number of
things going on as always. Uh, but so
the 10% thing is super interesting,
right? because that's also oddly the
number that um you know Intel uh you
know was was supposedly selling uh to
the government right like for for their
deal and um there's you know there's
other ownerships um trading hands
obviously between Nvidia uh and Intel
and then um a bunch of other stuff going
on. So it's like it all feels like the
same sort of general playbook just uh
being executed in different ways where
it's like now all of a sudden ownership
is sort of table stakes to these deals,
right? even when it's a company that's a
that's technically still a startup in
open AI own would be owning up to 10% of
a very public long-standing public chip
company in AMD and and what on earth
does that look like from a finance
perspective like their books like how do
is from again from what the reporting is
like they have the right to buy those
shares I think in warrants and so like
I'm not sure that they necessarily will
or but they could and Um and obviously
as you noted it's sort of dependent on
uh you know the business uh agreements
between these two um companies and then
there's like the other layer where as as
you just noted um it doesn't necessarily
have to be open AI that's buying the
chips right it could be one of their
partners and so I mean it it could be
Nvidia technically I guess you know that
would be buying AMD chips to help put
together one of the Stargate operation
things like because that's a layer of
this too right that um again stepping
back at the highest level it seems like
open AAI realizes that they need to
control their own destiny in many ways
but certainly on the cost front and to
the ultimate extreme they probably can't
be paying one of the massive cloud
providers be it you know uh Microsoft as
it's been to date and then sort of
Oracle too now um all of them they need
to be able to control their costs in a
better way and doing that means
eventually at some point sort of
controlling your own data centers um to
some extent. And so it feels like a lot
of these deals are coming together to
allow OpenAI to put in place the
building blocks to build their own data
centers quite literally. And this AMD
deal presumably is also a part of that.
But again, the wrinkle of it being one
of the partners doing it again I think
that that's related just thinking on the
fly here related to Stargate partners
being able to use it in their own data
center. So like Oracle famously controls
the one right now in in Abalene, Texas
that's that's the only one that's
actually being built right now in the
process of being built while the others
are still just sort of being signed and
and squared away. And so again like who
gets what rights to purchase you know
the the processors who gets what's
rights to purchase the the shares in AMD
and is AMD simply doing this again
because it's sort of become like the
table stakes thing and by the way it
worked in terms of the narrative of it
right like their stock is up a huge
amount right now is flying%
>> yeah right so like obviously that comes
into play too they all see that these
deals get done and then the stock goes
through the roof um because investors
are excited all of a sudden again about
about AMD because they're doing a
similar deal to you know what what
Nvidia and Intel and all the other
players have done.
>> Just want to pause on the 27%. We've
seen this is the second time we've seen
something like this happen, right? AMD
is up 27% today. Oracle of course
blasted into orbit when it made its deal
with OpenAI. Um
>> we're going to we're really not going to
focus on the stock market in this show.
We're going to talk mostly about product
and and partnerships. Uh but it it is
worth noting, right? Like this
exuberance in the stock stock market is
based off of infrastructure spend and
not revenue. It's all based off of
revenue projections and those re revenue
projections are extremely aggressive
especially when you consider the fact
that enterprises are moving
exceptionally slow here. This is a red
flag to me.
>> And so that goes back to my post. The
reason I wrote, you know, again, off of
riffing off of Sam's comments, because
the only thing that I could think about,
you know, in my head of like what they
were, you know, presumably talking about
with this new method of financing or
whatever wasn't actually a new method of
financing. It's it's basically using
debt in a way to sort of get a flywheel
going. So that um you know, obviously
leveraging debt, especially for for data
center buildouts and things of that
nature, is not is nothing new. But what
you what you're sort of alluding to here
is exactly what might be the new element
of it in that they these players are all
trading revenue and and you know again
it starts with OpenAI agreeing to do
these massive deals with another partner
but as everyone knows as has been widely
reported OpenAI doesn't have the money
to do these you know the deals to the
extent they don't have the money in the
bank literally to do the deals um you
know to the extent that these these are
talking about and so Now we get these
other deals like the new Nvidia one
where it's like they are promising to
you know commit up to hundred billion.
It doesn't have to be that much. It
starts with 10, right? 10 it sounds like
is is maybe committed uh depending on
how how committed these two are to
actually you know finalizing this deal
but it's like 10 comes in at first and
then another 10 comes in over you know
and basically over nine tanches they
they would get this 100 billion. But the
timing of that all, like is there actual
money going into bank accounts uh to pay
for something, you know, physically
being built at some point, or is it all
just being based off of like lines of
credit? Uh, you know,
>> it could just be chips. Maybe OpenAI is
going to pay for these AMD chips with
Nvidia chips. Maybe they're just going
to take one of Jensen's trucks of chips,
drive it over to Lisa Sue, and be like,
"We'll take 10% of your company right
now." I mean, if these chips are really
at the shortage limits that's everyone's
projecting, like they're worth more than
their weight in gold. And so, you know,
like they are somewhat of a of an actual
uh value store, I guess, in that in that
way. But but you know, the thing you're
talking about how this makes you
uncomfortable. The obvious elephant in
the room that again everyone will know
is like if even the smallest slowdown
happens not not even like a massive
correction. If a slowdown happens in in
several of on several of these fronts on
any number of sorry I should say on any
one of these like several fronts that
are going right now it can start like it
seems like it would start a cascading
effect that would potentially bring down
the entire thing. And then we got debt
being called and we got people unable to
pay and we've got new, you know,
contracts being renegotiated and and
people taking out, you know, does the
bank own, you know, do banks start
owning start some of this stuff and and
and does the government have to step in
as, you know, they basically are clearly
open to doing in deals like with Intel
as we talked about. And so there's all
sorts of weird things that are happening
right now that I don't think that
there's a ton of precedent for in
history,
>> right? And as we've sort of danced
around or even mentioned so far, there
was a very interesting line in the Wall
Street Journal story where the reporter
writes, "The Nvidia deal isn't completed
yet. The two companies have signed a
letter of intent and have yet to
disclose specific terms in regulatory
filings." So
>> is that is that actually happening? I
mean, we can't say for certain.
So, and then so there's a few things
here. One that what is up with OpenAI's
letter of intents uh like love now you
know they did the Microsoft one they
announced with uh you know a couple
dozen words that they they had a
agreement to agree with Microsoft on new
terms but they have no actual terms to
agree upon yet and so it's not a done
deal. Now, this Nvidia one is also
basically an agreement to agree to, you
know, a deal. And, you know, you have to
sort of wonder if AMD didn't see that
and think like maybe we should swoop in
here before this is a done deal and sort
of get something else done. Um and and
you know in the report there they do say
like and and I think Altman I saw it
maybe it was even a tweet or or he said
it somewhere else but he sort of makes
it clear that
Nvidia is still like a main partner
right this isn't like this isn't them
switching horses uh you know in in the
middle of a deal being done but there is
you know to to continue the analogy
there is some level of jockeying that it
feels like is happening here right um
where it's like again maybe Lisa Seuss
saw that this deal was not finalized and
so she could sort of come in and say
what can we do you know alongside this
if nothing else if we can't take some of
this business then there's a whole like
this is apparently for inference and you
know obviously Nvidia is in that game
too but wants to be own that game like
they do with with actual um model
training right now u you know and so
there's that whole element there's the
element of the Broadcom deal that that
OpenAI has which maybe kickstarted some
of these Nvidia deals talks uh between
OpenAI and and uh Nvidia so that they
didn't go down the path fully of making
their own chips. It sounds like they're
still doing it but maybe not as fast as
they would have previously because again
they want to hone the whole stack as we
talked about. So yeah, lot lot going on.
I'm not saying it's going to happen, but
I do think that you could in your mind
imagine a scenario where you connect all
these dots uh looking backwards from,
you know, in the future where there is a
collapse here and you could say how did
we not like think this was a blatant
collapse waiting to happen. The letters
of intents, the losses, the size of the
investment, the fact that enterprises
struggling to implement this stuff. Yes,
chat GPT or OpenAI is going to bring in
13 billion this year. uh at least it's
on on track to do that. But it's going
to lose according to reports 120 billion
by 2029. Um again like the caveat we
always say and I think this is it's a
very freaking important caveat is that
the technology is real. Chat GPT and and
and all these GPTs are are or all these
LLMs are getting getting better as we
go. Uh but the financing definitely is
is wonky to say the least.
>> Yeah. And it feels a bit like, you know,
when you do slow down for a second and
try to think about this, it feels like a
shock and awe campaign meant to leverage
speed. And I do think that this is
basically what OpenAI is running a
playbook of of like leveraging the fact
that as they keep talking about like
this is a unique moment in time, we need
to move as fast as possible. We have
there's so much this is this is the race
to AGI or super intelligence and and we
need to do this right now. We can't
wait. if you're waiting, someone else is
going to step in and do these deals.
Like you're either in or you're out. And
uh just using that time pressure to
basically force um the hands of uh
people into pretty uncomfort what would
normally be pretty certainly for a CFO a
very uncomfortable uh uh calculation to
to make in these situations,
>> right? And I guess there is some logic
to them doing that, right? And it
>> it's the competition, right? And there's
this there's this account that I follow
on on X or seems to pop up in my
timeline all the time. You can't tell
who I follow anymore because of our
algorithmic overlords, but it's uh the
person's name is Borov and Borov says
Google Anthropic and OpenAI are
currently fighting a war of attrition.
The problem for the latter two is their
cash comes not from clients but from
investors while Google is profitable and
no longer losing uh users. Add this to
the fact that among the three only
Google has its own infinite supply of
GPUs for the price of peanuts and draw
your conclusion on how this war of
attrition will end. Now obviously this
person is is very bullish on Google
winning this this moment. It's quite
possible uh but I think maybe that's the
sort of OpenAI fully understands the
fact that it's matched up against them.
by the way, also open AI, also uh sorry,
Meta and Elon. And then you sort of see
why we have this rush the way we
>> it's yeah completely unprecedented to
have this many massive players with this
amount of capital being able to be put
to work. But I totally agree with that
stance and I've written a little bit
about this like the even before um yeah
the riffing off of Sam's newest post. It
was the the main thing I've been sort of
dancing around and and finally was able
to put this down. It's like it really
does feel to me at least at this moment
in time given that Meta obviously is
struggling a bit but is trying to reboot
the system. Elon like they're losing a
lot of people like there's a lot of
weird stuff going on there. There's a
lot of spend going on there. He can fund
raise like no other of course so you
know he's he's good for it now but like
there's weirdness there. Anthropic is a
different beast it feels like you know
with their Martin their new marketing
campaign sort of uh plays to that. like
are they going to be now set up as the o
the anti-open AAI type play but at a
lower level and then so to me anyway
long-winded way of saying it feels like
this is basically right now as it stands
a two- horse race between openai and
Google and I do think that openai looks
at Google and just says like oh my god
they have everything that they need to
do this at scale while as you noted
having to burn investor capital they
have they they're insanely profitable.
They can do this on their own. And by
the way, unlike Meta, which is also
profitable, and Zuck talks up like,
"Yeah, we can we can fund this via
profits," which is true, but they don't
have the cloud infrastructure that
Google does, and they don't have the the
TPUs that Google does, and they don't
have all of the sort of other various
expertise to sort of scale the this type
of um unprecedented massive buildout
scale that uh Google is able to do. And
so I think Sam and and everyone else at
Open Eye just says like there's a lot
going on. All these things are are
varying degrees of of noise. Um and some
is real competition, but Google is the
one that really has the opportunity. And
so my headline idea was basically
OpenAI needs to build Google Cloud
before Google can build Chat GBT, right?
And that's like how it goes.
>> Yeah.
>> Couple more things on this. It's just so
many interesting aspects to this. Um,
and that and speaking of Sam Alman,
Kremlinology, let's take a look at the
tweet that you referenced. Excited to
partner with AMD to use their chips to
serve our users. This is from Sam. He
says, "This is all incremental to our
work with Nvidia and we plan to increase
our Nvidia purchasing overtime." An
astute ex user said, "Everyone is scared
of Jensen. This post mentions Nvidia
more times than AMD despite the deal
being about AMD. Jensen might bump them
down in the preference list due to this.
What do you think about that?
>> Yeah, and I'm glad you found that one
because yes, that I think I saw that
quickly and that is a great point about
it and and that's another thing that's
at play here like and also why it felt
like at least a part of why Open AI and
Nvidia struck that deal. It's like right
now if you want to be a main player in
this game, you've obviously got to work
with Nvidia. And as everyone knows, like
while they'll they say they don't play
favorites, like if they're going to
invest whatever hundred billion dollars
into you, like you're going to get
access to their chips, like they're not
going to screw you over. But if you did
a deal with AMD, you know, behind their
back, like maybe you're not first in
line for those chips anymore. And so I
think you have to sort of like you have
to do with uh President Trump, you got
to sort of do the public uh feelalty and
and show uh and show who's really in
charge.
Okay, here's my last question about
this. Why would OpenAI want to own 10%
of AMD? I cannot figure out why it is
advantageous for them other than uh I
don't know. You tell me what what's the
deal.
>> I'm sort of at a loss too for that. I I
think like again the only thing I would
come back to is what I said earlier.
It's like this is now become like a
weird table stakes thing of like these
companies trading ownership, you know,
and quite high percentages of ownership
within, you know, each other.
There's there's going to be subsequent
reporting about this obviously as to why
that part became a big part of it, but
it does it's like I think Lisa Sue has a
quote in there of like saying that it
aligns their interests because OpenAI,
you know, will now obviously have a
potentially have an ownership stake in
AMD and so they'll be aligned about
like, you know, making sure that they're
along for the ride, you know, wherever
that ride takes them, I guess. But like,
yeah, that's it's a public company
selling up to 10% of of their shares.
Uh, it's like and again, it's a private
company buying. It's like very very
strange. I guess OpenAI might like it
because it's like just something else to
have on the balance sheet when if and
when they go public and they can say
like look, we have these shares worth
10% of of AMD and it's worth X, you
know, hundreds of whatever it is,
billions of dollars and uh I I don't
know. I'm I'm sort of drawing it straws
here,
>> right? And now Microsoft and Nvidia are
going to own AMD as well for the money
that they put in to help OpenAI build
AGI. Well, if you don't get AGI, you can
get some AMD shares. It's a it's not the
best consolation prize, but it's worth
it's worth more than nothing.
>> So weird.
>> Okay. Uh what is this compute going to
be used for? On the other side of this
break, MG and I are going to talk about
Sam Alman and Johnny Ives attempt to
build an AI device and about why uh that
is running into trouble because of a
lack of uh among other things compute.
We'll be back right after this. And
we're back here on Big Technology
Podcast with MG Seagler. He's the author
of Spyglass, which you can find at
spyglass.org.
Lots of great stories in there. Really
an impressive September from UMG. just
like going through the stories before we
talked and uh I you are my go-to source
for
>> basically everything that's happening in
this crazy world including this uh very
interesting report that we have coming
out really over the weekend today uh
about how Sam Alman and Johnny IV are
hitting some uh speed bumps shall we say
with their secretive AI device. I'll
read from the FT briefly. OpenAI and
star designer Johnny IV are grappling
with a series of technical issues with
their secretive new AI device as they
push to launch a blockbuster tech
product next year. Their aim is to
create a palmsized device with a screen
that can take audio and visual and
visual cues from the physical
environment and respond to users
requests. Uh OpenAI and Iive have yet to
solve critical problems that could delay
the devices release though. These
include uh deciding on the assistant's
personality, privacy issues, uh and
budgeting for the computing power needed
to run OpenAI models on a mass uh
computer device. And there's a person
that tells uh the FT, somebody close to
IV, that uh compute is a huge factor in
the delay. Amazon has the compute for
Alexa, so does Google, but OpenAI is
struggling to get enough compute for
Chat GPT, let alone an AI device. They
need to fix that first. All right, we're
going to talk about the nature of this
device because we're getting like a
picture of what it's going to look like.
But first on the significance of
somebody close to IV complaining to the
FT that OpenAI doesn't have enough
compute for this device to run. That to
me is is pretty interesting and I think
not a good sign. And this is a
multi-billion dollar tie-up. It's not a
good sign for the fact that um somebody
close to IV is saying this, you know,
for a story about the device hitting
speed speed bumps. What do you think,
MG? Yeah. Um, yeah, the behind thescenes
element of that is is super interesting.
You have to wonder to me it sort of felt
almost as if it's um, you know, pro I I
don't want to say it's an intentional
leak, but I do feel like it's
directionally interesting that uh,
they're basically telling the market
that this device is not going to be on
time. like it because their original
reports, right, were that it was going
to be probably sometime at the end of
next year, the end of 26. And so, you
know, this to me signals that this is
more like a 2027 type thing now. Um, and
I I think that that sort of quote maybe
uh helps that, you know, get out there
so people aren't expecting, you know,
have a countdown all of a sudden a for a
year from now when when this device
doesn't hit the market. Um but I also
think like there's a lot in that in that
report including yeah like what this
device you know potentially is. They
don't come out and say it directly but
you know a lot I think a lot of us who
read those original like reports when
the when the two sides both started
working together but then obviously when
the acquisition happened which also
feels like 20 years ago but was only a
few months ago uh which is again wild.
Um, but I think, you know, we all sort
of zeroed in on it being not necessarily
a wearable, even though that was, you
know, what Meta and and, you know,
others were working on, but that it
could be some sort of thing that's um,
you know, a voice first device that uh,
you carry around alongside at least to
start certainly a smartphone. So, it's a
a complimentary device to a smartphone.
And um so there's there's that element
of it and then yeah the data element of
like what would be required to make this
work. It's sort of I'm I'm curious why
that compute complaint is in place other
than the general compute complaint that
we're seeing with Sora and everything
else right now, right? Like they're
always compute constrained to some
degree. And you know right now they're
rate limiting the creation of Sora
videos. Uh they they just jumped it
down. I saw recently from 100 in 24
hours cuz I keep hitting it uh to now
it's 30. Uh and so they're really
feeling constraints it feels like or
feeling the the compute pressure on that
and so with it this presumed voice first
device there the report is that there
will be cameras involved with it too.
Like is that really going to be that big
of a data hog? And maybe the part of it
that is is the fact that it's apparently
always listening. It's always on. always
maybe recording. Um so that's maybe part
of it, but um it's it's a curious it's a
curious bit of reporting that that
that's like the issue, one of the main
issues,
>> right? And I think what you're getting
at is the compute shouldn't be the main
I mean obviously it's an issue.
>> It shouldn't be the main
>> the main thing that would stop a roll
out. Yeah. They could just
>> even if it was
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And even if it was and you and
someone from Johnny Ives team wanted a
leak out that we're having some issues.
Um you know the fact that they the leak
was not just we're delayed but
fingerpointing to me points to the idea
that these teams aren't working well. I
mean like if you have a sports team and
they collapse, right? A sports team that
loses a couple games, you hear the
athletes and they're always like we need
to do better as a team. We need to get
better. And then let's say they lose six
games in a row. And I'm familiar with
this because all of my teams lose six
games in a row. That's when they start
fingerpointing and they say, "Well, the
defense wasn't holding up. It's part of
the bargain." Or, you know, we we
really, you know, our our hitters at the
bottom of the order need to need to come
through. And and for them to say, uh,
OpenAI is struggling to get enough
compute for chat GPT, let alone an AI
device. They need to fix that. O that is
that the fact that someone would go to
the FT with that is is I think fairly
concerning. Hearing you say that now, it
sort of brings into my mind like the
idea of sort of what we were talking
about with Sora, because that's like the
the prime example of of their compute
constraint at the moment, at least
forward facing wise. But it sort of
feels like, okay, there's all these
different things going on at at OpenAI
in the moment. And now, famously, they
brought in another CEO to help uh to
help deal with all that in in Fiji Simu
Simu. And uh um so it feels like there's
maybe some jockeying happening for
making sure that each team gets their
level of compute that they want to get
or feel like they need to get in order
to uh to fully be able to to bring their
product to market. And again like the
happens to be the time when Sora is
really sort of uh just blowing up their
servers at the moment. But obviously
they're working on other models and
there's other needs for compute that are
going on behind the scenes. There's
other products. there's all the agentic
work that they're doing. Um, and you
know, it feels like maybe this is just a
way to ensure that like, hey, you guys
spent a lot of money to bring on the IO
team. We need our to make sure that we
have our uh our resources, too.
>> Yeah, I think that's
>> and they feel like they're not getting
them for some reason.
>> Now that you contextualize it, I think
that's that's the exact right, Reed. And
it sort of sparks in my mind the fact
that this has always been an issue at
OpenAI teams fighting for compute. And I
think the safety teams, you know, of
yester year that got upset and left uh
got upset mainly over the fact that they
didn't have uh enough compute to um
either steer the product road map or do
the checks that they wanted to or the
experiments that they wanted to. So,
>> and it's also like what what Microsoft,
you know, remember like that's was what
OpenAI's main complaint about was was
with Microsoft like that they're not
getting the resources that they need and
they feel like that, you know,
Microsoft's working on their own
projects and why aren't you being fully
committed to helping us and and you
know, so now it's moved internal,
>> right? And um let's talk a little bit
about what this device is cuz we we did
get some interesting detail about what
it's going to be. So, this is from the
FT report. It's roughly the size of a
smartphone. Users communicate uh with it
through a camera, microphone, and
speaker. It is designed to sit on a desk
or table, but it can also be carried
around by the user. The device is always
on. Rather than uh triggered by Ward or
prompt, its sensors gather data through
the day. Uh that would help it build its
virtual assistants memory. Um one issue
uh is ensuring the device only chimes in
when useful, preventing it from talking
too much or not knowing when to finish
the conversation. an ongoing issue with
chat GPT. It's interesting. Um, sort of
reminds me of the the friend.com
pendant.
>> Yeah, for sure. Friend, Limitless.
There's a b there's a few others, right?
And obviously Humane, RIP, and uh and
and Rabbit, uh, which also feels like
decades ago that that came out. Um, but
yeah, they're it does again this it
feels a bit obvious that this is the
path that they were going to go down.
Um, I I feel like this is and and I'm
somewhat biased because I've like long
written about this dating back a decade
where I thought that that there would be
like, you know, these vocal computing
devices, not just Alexa, but like yeah,
on the- go and and always on you type
things. Um, and it hasn't played out
exactly that way yet, but I do again I
feel like it's just a matter of time
until someone nails these. And I do
think that when chat when OpenAI rolled
out GPT40 and alongside that they did
the voice element of it which obviously
they f infamously got in in trouble with
for the Scarlett Johansson voice which
is what mainly what people remember now.
But if you remember back then, you know,
it was about a year, a little over a
year ago, I think it was um it was just
insanely impressive like voice
technology, right, compared to what the
state-of-the-art had been up until then.
And it's been, you know, getting better.
And now obviously Gemini and everyone
else has it integrated uh within their
systems as well. But it feels like Alexa
and Siri and the first sort of versions
of these these types of vocal computing
devices, they focus so much on like the
individual devices and the sort of
rudimentary utility stuff.
>> I just triggered all of my devices in my
office here. But um and so once once
they did that, it sort of held them back
from being able to do like the new
fangled versions of these. Obviously,
they couldn't have known at the time
where LLMs would go and and how this
would uh how this would evolve. But it
feels like with that GBT40 roll out all
that time ago and now the continued
evolution, the voice computing element
is there where it needs to be for a
device like this to work. But the
hardware part is now the hard part,
which is always the hard part. But you
know, companies like Amazon and or Apple
or Google can figure that out because
they have they're massive companies at
scale. question is if OpenAI can do it
with the team that Johnny I they
acquired with Johnny Ives team and the
team most importantly that he brought
over from Apple who have done this at
scale for decades.
>> And this brings me to this idea that
they're all sort of all these products
are consolidating in some way like we
just named a bunch of companies OpenAI,
Amazon, Google, Facebook, Apple. uh
they're all it seems like they're all
building the same thing and and so the
the hardware might be the tough part,
but then you sort of will you'll
eventually probably differentiate based
off of the assistant inside. And this
was your take about uh what's what's
going on with with the OpenAI device
compared to the Apple Apple device uh
that we're going to see. So, so you
write, "Just imagine a world in which
Johnny IV introduces OpenAI's first
hardware, a small screenless digital
companion for your life." At the same
time that Apple unveils their next
hardware, a pair of glasses with cameras
on your face and perhaps a screen in
your eye. One runs on Chia GPT, the
other on Siri. That would be quite the
dichotomy.
>> And it's sort of angling that way,
right? Like these the timelines are sort
of starting to line up, especially with
what we're talking about with delays.
you know, potentially to OpenAI's device
and uh where we know that uh Apple from
the, you know, most recent Mark German
report is uh is dropping sort of vision
pro work to to go for full steam ahead
on these these smart glasses to compete,
you know, presumably with Meta um and
meet them in market. And there's the
whole subtext thing going on with Johnny
Iive being, you know, perhaps upset
about the world that he helped usher in,
right, with screens and and everything
else with the iPhone and the fact that
not only is Apple now, you know, going
full steam ahead on on glasses with
cameras, but if they're they, you know,
again, the reports are that they're
going to go down the path that Meta just
did with with the screen in the eye.
Like now we have screens in our eyes. Uh
and and Johnny IV is making trying to
make advice with zero screens. Um and so
that is a very interesting butdding of
butdding of heads. I I would the only
other thing I would add to that that I
didn't write about in there, but I would
be I'm slightly concerned that there's
too much focus on it being a screenless
device perhaps, right? Like I'm not
saying that it needs to be another
smartphone certainly and I do think that
there's probably a world and I think
there's increasingly a world where
people are maybe you know happy to move
at least a bit away from from being
reliant on a smartphone. But I'm also
worried a little bit that it would be
harder to use with zero screens. You
know like there's sometimes when you
just need a screen for something to
showcase versus doing it orally or um or
via another mechanism. Now, maybe they
could say, "Well, they'll send a
notification to your phone if they if
there's something they need to show you
or something like that." But I'm a
little worried that it's uh it's it's
trying to do it just to make a point
about anti-screens. Uh at the same time,
the other the flip side of that would be
a screen, as everyone knows, is the
biggest battery draw of any of of
devices. And so, like, if they could do
it without a screen, they can do a lot
better in all day battery life and maybe
weak battery life.
>> I think they're all going to go screen.
I remember when Amazon announced the
Echo device and it was so cool because
it glowed at the top and talked to you
and we had uh Panos Pane from Amazon,
the head of devices and services on the
show in March and he beseeched me to go
get the Echo Show with the screen and
said the experience wasn't going to be
the same without and I think all these
devices will end up getting there and
it's just kind of interesting how
they're all converging in their own way.
Let me see if I get this right. You have
OpenAI pushing Apple on the assistant
device. You have Meta pushing Apple
towards glasses. You have Amazon getting
pushed by everybody to have a better
Alexa. You have Google kind of standing
out there to the side, but it has uh
ambient Gemini and is also working on
glasses. And Amazon apparently is also
working on glasses.
>> Yep.
>> Is the is Is the tech world just is are
all tech products and services just
converging to this you know eventual yet
to be named singular interface with uh
assistant inside? Um the that actually
reminds me of one one subpoint of of my
piece which was um while I just said you
know the the negative side of like the
no screen thing. I do think it's
interesting that OpenAI is trying to go
down at least a little bit different of
a path like you won't see presumably
unless there's success from it from
someone be it OpenAI or someone else. I
don't think you'll see Apple do like
Yeah. like a screenless AI device. I
don't think you'll see
>> except for the glasses. They could do
the glasses with no screen.
>> That's true. And it sounds like the
first version will be, but I I mean like
um a sort of a secondary piece of
hardware. Yeah. Like exactly what is
rumored to be, you know, what OpenAI is
working on. It feels like they're the
only ones besides those startups as we
mentioned that are going down that path
at least right now. Now you could say
Alexa it god I'm going to trigger it
again is sort of like that um in a way
right but it's obviously meant for to be
plugged in and you don't take it with
you um but I think you're right
obviously everyone is is sort of
coalesing around these same ideas
including the startups all working on
the things that we noted um and the
answer to that is like I just think
everyone is still trying to figure out
like what the next device is despite all
of the AI high hype and and everything
that we've been talking about and
obviously everyone, you know, we're
we're real believers in it, but we're
unsure about the the financing models
for it, but everyone believes in the
technology angle of it, but it's still
at the end of the day, people are
looking for the next device because they
think that this can be the next thing
that becomes like the massive platform
and the next iPhone, right? And um I'm
still of the mindset that's the more
boring mindset that's like nothing's
ever going to be the scale again of of
what the iPhone achieved. And instead
it's going to be all of these devices, a
bunch of different devices including
glasses, including your smartphone in
maybe uh you know potentially including
a a chat pin walkound thing, desktop
device, whatever it is. Um and and
several other things you know along
those lines. Um, so yeah, I think that
they all just feel like they need to
have these initiatives. You mentioned
Amazon because they, as you noted, like
they they sounds like per reporting,
they do have a a glasses project as
well, but they hired the Jay Allard,
which was a name I hadn't heard in years
and years out of Microsoft to work on,
you know, these new some sort of new
ideas around devices and and AI and
whatnot.
>> Yep. So, they do have So, uh, here's a
plug uh for for an upcoming episode.
Panos Play is going to come on. and I
just recorded with him in New York
following the Amazon devices event and
we do talk about that workshop that they
have where they're trying to figure out
the future of the new AI device and uh
we had a really interesting interaction.
And it's kind of fun where I said,
"Well, what do you think about
pendants?" And he goes, "Oh, really
trying to go all over the place here."
And he goes, "Pendants? Hm." You know,
so anyway, I encourage people to tune in
for that because uh it does seem like
they're at least considering a pendant
there. Um but you know what's going to
be interesting? It's going to be the
design philosophy of all these
companies. Like you wrote in a post
about how Amazon said, "Let's just get
it out. let's get Alexa plus out there
after they saw that Apple u you know
didn't uh release or or get as much of
Apple intelligence out out there and
they got killed for it.
>> Um I I actually I I want to end with a
couple things. First of all, I want to
get your take on well second of all I
want to get your take on the Vision Pro
before we leave because yeah uh we've
said on a couple times a couple times on
the show that Apple has dep prioritize
that. So we should at least take a
moment to talk about what that means.
Um, but before that,
>> you it's just very interesting to see
Meta uh pushing Apple in these
directions. And so I'd be curious to
hear your perspective on like where the,
you know, it's really a blood feud in my
perspective. Maybe that's too strong of
a term, but where the Meta verse Apple
uh uh product war stands and how you
think each one of those companies uh
product philosophy will be an advantage
or a disadvantage as they move forward
trying to ship these AI devices.
>> Yes. So, I've written about this a
number of times dating dating back a few
years now. Um, basically, you know,
once,
um, once Apple tried to destroy Meta's
advertising business, uh, it felt like
that was the kickoff of a real cold, you
know, not even cold war, a hot war in in
many ways that's that's been happening.
I think at the highest level for Meta,
you know, Zuckerberg has said it
multiple times from on Joe Rogan's
podcast, no less, like talking about how
they feel like they're in a just
terrible position because they're
beholden to Apple and to a lesser extent
Google in terms of the smartphone, you
know, needs for their products. And it's
not just for distribution of their apps
anymore. It's now for things like their
glasses where they feel like they can't
have the same level of connectivity that
like an Apple Watch does because they're
not first-party hardware. Um, you know,
and they and they can't tap into the the
iPhone the same way that Apple itself
can um with, you know, low-level um
Bluetooth and all these other things
that they use for connections. And so I
think that Meta has been trying
basically anything uh to make, you know,
something that could again replace that
smartphone as the next computing device.
And again, Zuckerberg has not been shy
about talking about that. I'm super
skeptical as we just talked about that
anything will ever get to that scale.
But I do think that Meta has done a good
job and an admirable job by the way of
sticking with it, right? Like lots of
companies famously Google, you know,
with Google Glass and and their own VR
efforts, like they just do something and
then when it's not working, they back
away. And you know, there's something to
be said for that, too. But a lot of
these new fangled devices, it just feels
like they will never work unless someone
just continually pumps in the billions
required to sort of be in the right
place, right time. Right? So much of
this is based around timing as is so
many things in in the world. And uh I
just feel like a lot of these devices uh
have never worked because they're not
right place, right time. And people give
up before they would ever be in the
right place because you can't really
time the markets, right? You can't know
that it's going to be the right time for
it. you can, you know, do as much as you
can to try to make it the right time for
you. But, um, but again, Meta, to their
credit, support almost maybe a hundred
billion dollars now into their efforts
um, you know, in terms of, uh, the Quest
um, headsets, but now also with the
glasses and and all the other projects
and the AR glasses that they're working
on. So, credit to them for for still
trying to do it. I'm still a little bit
skeptical about what scale they can get
to with that and if they can ever fully
truly break uh yeah the the need to be
paired up quite literally with Apple and
or Google. Um and feels like it's going
to be a long time at the very least
until they can get to that's what that
part. I haven't used the new glasses
yet. Curious if you have but like you
know they're imp it sounds like they're
impressive. It sounds like the
technology is is impressive, but it also
doesn't sound like the type of thing
that's, you know, people are going to
leave their smartphones behind any time
in the next 5 to 10 years. Yeah, I I
haven't used them yet, but um I I
actually want to pick up on a on a item
that you put in a recent post about it
that uh I think Exor Luxica actually
boked at the idea of naming the latest
generation uh Ray-B bands because they
were bulky and then Meta sort of floated
some money towards them and now all of a
sudden
>> Right. Again, another another tech
company that owns an ownership stake in
a in a public company.
>> Exactly. And and so I think what I draw
from that is what might be playing in
Meta's benefit here is they don't have a
standard. You know, they don't have to
worry about decades of a design legacy
that they have to uphold to make
something feel meta-ish.
>> They're just like, "All right, if these
are ugly as hell Oakley glasses that,
you know, talk back to you and some
people like them, let's just do it." And
that sort of I guess spaghetti at the
wall type of uh approach um I I think is
a very interesting contrast to the it
has to be perfect way that Apple is
developing things.
>> Yeah. And one riff off of that idea is I
do think the smartest thing that they
did was partner with Exer Luxotica
because the the biggest strength that
Apple obviously has beyond all their
in-house expertise is also their retail
channels, right? Like they can move
product because they have stores around
the world and they can ship something
and it be in every single country
basically around the world aside from I
guess Russia and maybe a few other
places. But um but uh Meta has has one
store or a couple stores, right? And
even Google has just a few a handful of
stores like no one else has that
capability. So Meta smartly, it's not
just the design of the glasses, which
obviously mattered too, like you know,
and getting to use the Ray-B band brand,
but it's also the the foot the retail
footprint that they can get from that
partnership is was a hugely smart thing.
And it's something that I've been
wondering about when thinking through
what Apple does with SmartClass is like,
do they also do some sort of partnership
there? Not because they need it from a
distribution perspective, but more
because like Meta has now set a standard
in a way that look, you're wearing the
same brand that you wore for your
regular sunglasses or your regular
glasses, but now they have these these
tech enabled things and like Apple, as
great as they are at design, like do
people, you know, like there's the
difference between wearing an Apple
Watch, which is, you know, welldesigned
and stuff, but it sort of resides under
your shirt. Um, and uh, there's a very
different thing between something that's
right on your face all the time. And
obviously Google ran into that head
first, pun intended, um, you know, with
with Google Glass. And I think again,
Meta was very smart in in out of
necessity. They had to be smart about
that partnership. And so what does Apple
do there with uh, do they have to cut a
deal um to do a partnership in a similar
vein?
>> Okay, a couple more minutes left. Let's
just do the Requum for the Vision Pro. I
I remember back in the day uh hearing
Apple make lofty promises about the
future of uh spatial computing. Wasn't
the metaverse, it was spatial computing.
That's
>> right.
>> Um this big vision and now the vision
pro has been a disappointment. But not
only that, it seems like it's going to
be depprioritized within Apple's suite
of products. And you even suggest in one
of your recent posts that this might be
it for
>> Yeah. And I, you know, Gurman and others
have said like, look, they're still
committed. They're obviously about to
release a new version with just an
upgraded chip. It's apparently going to
have a slightly better headband, which
is nice cuz the current one is not any
good. But, um, but beyond that, it'll
just be a chip upgrade. Um, the one that
you're talking about, of course, is that
they're they're going to at least put on
the back burner the idea of a Vision Air
or just the Vision without the Pro part
of it. The slighter, this the smaller,
lighter, and potentially less expensive.
um you know version to actually scale
this thing. And I think that they just
probably looked at the market and said
like obviously where we're at right now
with the Vision Pro is not where we want
to be. Um but even if they did a quote
unquote Vision or Vision Air and say it
was like even $1,000, do you think it's
going to be a massive scaled, you know,
hit device? I don't think that it would
be. And so I think that they're being
realistic about that. And you know, as
you're talking about, Meta sort of
showed them what the market is like, at
least for the foreseeable future in
terms of a wearable on your face. Um,
and again, others had tried, we talked
about Google. Snap of course was was an
early mover with spectacles and still
trying it. Um, but Meta really sort of
nailed, I think, both sort of a
technological um, perspective, ease of
use, uh, the partnership angle and
timing again. And I think the the for
the vision pro when we talk about does
it ever ever go anywhere, I don't think
that it's going to go anywhere anytime
soon. And so it's a matter of if Apple
does hit with something like the smart
pair of smart glasses and the next
version of it. I I wouldn't be shocked
if they do just back burner the notion
of the vision pro, it's still there as
like a legacy product. It's all roped
into this vision, quote unquote, vision
umbrella of like, well, this is just the
the high end of what we always wanted to
do and and you know, we're working at it
on multiple fronts. It's too bad because
I do feel like they've started to come
into their own with some of the contents
and they're getting better about it, but
the device itself is just way too bulky,
way too heavy. Everything about it is
just inconvenient to use and it's just
they timed the market completely wrong.
And obviously they couldn't have known
AI was coming as in as hot as it did,
but like you know they they went all in
on this product and they probably
shouldn't have done that. I know we said
to start this episode that the past
month or 30 days or whatever it's been
has been crazy and so uh it's hard to
possibly capture all the action that's
happened and and I I think that we'll
have the the same thing repeatedly month
month on end because uh none of this
seems like it's slowing and uh MG it's
just great to be able to break it down
with you uh every month. So so thank you
so much for coming on the show.
>> Of course. Thanks as always, Alex. And
I'll see you in a month. We'll see you.
>> All right. See you in a month. And
folks, uh remember to check out
spyglass.org. You can set up sign up for
MG's newsletter there. Become a pro
subscriber like I am and get the uh
added added articles and added insights.
Uh which I highly recommend. All right.
on on Wednesday, uh, Anthropic uh, chief
product officer Mike Kger is going to be
on if all goes according to schedule to
talk about the company's latest model
and and to discuss the fact that we've
gone from Sonnet 4.0 to 4.5 in a very
short amount of time and whether the AI
product release cycle is speeding up.
Thanks again to MG. Thank you all for
listening and we'll see you next time on
Big Technology